Hi , If you want to Contact Us We Recommended our Chat room Hidden Chat of zona in tor
http://7p2pvku7hrds45bzr2zt5lrhawmno64ch5wjtalkz6b7js7l225fsjad.onion/chat/chat.php

but We cannot promess you of our conversation with you there are not monitored by The silent watcher who are in all deepweb chat room .. (the bot) they come into all chat room created.. 


We think the Safest way is  Qtox inside Whonix Workstation.. You can fallow the Pedo hidden whonix guide and when you have finnaly Whonix Fonctional you have already Qtox installed.!



Warning Qtox Should NOT BE used outside of Whonix .. Because is not safe to use qtox in windows or in a phone..! Remember Qtox in whonix to use only Text message and to Don't Open Any link you can received..
Only Text message No Voice call , No Video call .. We think Qtox is the safest place Because No 3 third Party No Server to pass our message like example if you go On Ableonion chat When you speak there..
you dont know who is the admin Maybe is A Lea Server the gouvern who control the server ? and maybe all of you write is Saved and record .. Remember Even if you speak on Qtox you dont know who we are ..
Be careful About what you write .. Never reveal any information about you.. Dont Trust anyone,Dont trust us .. make your search.. !! stay safe..



Our Id on Qtox with that you can add us and start to Text with us when We will see a New Friend request...


0604A1C67CECA4FE64CD88A30752808D58F45675F730C1C8EC222E8AE2534A6C3525DFCDAC67






About Qtox:


you can see here on Whonix What they say about Qtox (tox).
https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Chat


You dont need to do Something on this site because like explain is already installed on WHonix but There is the Official website of Qtox
https://qtox.github.io/


A New Kind of Instant Messaging
With the rise of government monitoring programs, qTox provides an easy to use application 
that allows you to connect with friends and family without anyone else listening in. While other big-name services require you to pay for features, qTox is totally free, and comes without advertising.



The Tox Project

Tox began a few years ago, in the wake of Edward Snowden's leaks regarding NSA spying activity. 
The idea was to create an instant messaging application that ran without requiring the use of central servers. 
The system would be distributed, peer-to-peer, and end-to-end encrypted, with no way to disable any of the encryption features; at the same time, 
the application would be easily usable by the layperson with no practical knowledge of cryptography or distributed systems. During the Summer of 2013 a small group of developers 
from all around the globe formed and began working on a library implementing the Tox protocol. The library provides all of the messaging and encryption facilities, and is completely 
decoupled from any user-interface; for an end-user to make use of Tox, they need a Tox client. Fast-forward a few years to today, and there exist several independent Tox client projects, 
and the original Tox core library implementation continues to improve. Tox (both core library and clients) has thousands of users, hundreds of contributors, and the project shows no sign of slowing down.

Tox is a FOSS (Free and Open Source) project. All Tox code is open source and all development occurs in the open. Tox is developed by volunteer developers who spend their free time on it, 
believing in the idea of the project. Tox is not a company or any other legal organization. Currently we don't accept donations as a project, but you are welcome to reach out to developers individually.



Tox protects your privacy by:

    Removing the need to rely on central authorities to provide messenger services
    Enforcing end-to-end encryption with perfect forward secrecy as the default and only mode of operation for all messages
    Making your identity impossible to forge without the possesion of your personal private key, which never leaves your computer
